SRVKE-1366 Namespaced Kafka broker (#57548)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-kafka-broker-with-isolated-dataplane.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/eventing/brokers/serverless-using-brokers.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-kafka-broker-with-isolated-dataplane_{context}"]

> = Creating an Apache Kafka broker that uses an isolated data plane

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Creating a Knative broker for Apache Kafka that uses an isolated data plane
```

Author: I have a separate JIRA for renaming to "Knative broker for Apache Kafka" but I will update this occurrence in this JIRA when I add the TP warning

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * serverless/eventing/brokers/serverless-using-brokers.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-kafka-broker-with-isolated-dataplane_{context}"]
= Creating a Knative broker for Apache Kafka that uses an isolated data plane

:FeatureName: The Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka with isolated data plane
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

The Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka has 2 planes:

> Control plane:: Consists of controllers that talk to Kubernetes API, watch for custom objects and manage the data plane.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Control plane:: Consists of controllers that talk to the Kubernetes API, watch for custom objects, and manage the data plane.
```
- add definite article
- add Oxford comma, per IBM style guide

> Data plane:: The collection of components that listen for incoming events, talk to Apache Kafka and  send events to the event sinks. The Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka data plane is where the events flow, and consists of `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data plane:: The collection of components that listen for incoming events, talk to Apache Kafka, and send events to the event sinks. The Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka data plane is where the events flow. The implementation consists of `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments.
```
- add Oxford comma
- remove extra space
- consider rewriting to two shorter sentences to break down excessive information in a single sentence

> When using a Broker class of `Kafka`, the Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka uses a shared data plane. This means that the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments in the `knative-eventing` namespace are used for all Apache Kafka Brokers in the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When it uses a Broker class of `Kafka`, the Knative Broker implementation for Apache Kafka uses a shared data plane. This means that the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments in the `knative-eventing` namespace are used for all Apache Kafka Brokers in the cluster.
```
- Not sure what or who is `using a Broker class` here. If it is the user, then the sentence has a misplaced modifier and needs to be revised to indicate who or what is doing the "using". If it is the "implementation" that is `using a Broker class`, then consider rewording as I suggest to make this clear.

> However, when using a Broker class of `KafkaNamespaced`, the Apache Kafka broker controller creates a new data plane for each namespace where a broker exists. This data plane is used by all `KafkaNamespaced` brokers in that namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, when the controller uses a Broker class of `KafkaNamespaced`, the Apache Kafka broker controller creates a new data plane for each namespace where a broker exists. This data plane is used by all `KafkaNamespaced` brokers in that namespace.
```
- Not sure what or who is `using a Broker class` here. If it is the user, then the sentence has a misplaced modifier and needs to be revised to indicate who or what is doing the "using". If it is the "controller" that is `using a Broker class`, then consider rewording as I suggest to make this clear.

> This provides isolation between the data planes, so that the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments in the user namespace are only used for the broker in that namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This provides isolation between the data planes, so that the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments in the user namespace are only used for the broker in that namespace.
```
`This` has an unclear antecedent. `This` what? What is "this" referring to?

[IMPORTANT]
====

> As a consequence of having separate data planes, this security feature creates more deployments and uses more resources. Unless you have such isolation requirements, it is preferable to use a *regular* Broker with a class of `Kafka`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a consequence of having separate data planes, this security feature creates more deployments and uses more resources. Unless you have such isolation requirements, do not use a *regular* Broker with a class of `Kafka`.
```
It's always better to be opinionated and tell the user what to do or not do rather than waffling and saying `preferable`, imo.

.Prerequisites

* The {ServerlessOperatorName}, Knative Eventing, and the `KnativeKafka` custom resource are installed on your {product-title} cluster.

* You have access to an Apache Kafka instance such as link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_amq/7.6/html/amq_streams_on_openshift_overview/kafka-concepts_str#kafka-concepts-key_str[Red Hat AMQ Streams], and have created a Kafka topic.

* You have created a project, or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {product-title}.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Create an Apache Kafka-based broker by using a YAML file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Broker
metadata:
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/broker.class: KafkaNamespaced <1>
  name: default
  namespace: my-namespace <2>
spec:
  config:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: ConfigMap
    name: my-config <2>
    # namespace: my-namespace <3>
...
----
<1> To use the Apache Kafka broker with isolated data planes, the broker class value must be `KafkaNamespaced`.

> <2> The referenced ConfigMap object `my-config` must be in the same namespace as the `Broker` object, in this case `my-namespace`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> The referenced `ConfigMap` object `my-config` must be in the same namespace as the `Broker` object, in this case `my-namespace`.
```

> <3> There is no need to define the namespace for the ConfigMap object as it defaults to the Broker's namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<3> There is no need to define the namespace for the `ConfigMap` object because it defaults to the namespace of the Broker.
```

. Apply the Apache Kafka-based broker YAML file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <filename>
----

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The `ConfigMap` object that is specified in `spec.config` **must** be in the same namespace as the `Broker` object:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ConfigMap` object that is specified in `spec.config` must be in the same namespace as the `Broker` object:
```
- per IBM Style, do not use text formatting like bold, italics, or underlining to indicate emphasis. In this case, the Important admonition already emphasizes the content sufficiently.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: my-config
  namespace: my-namespace
data:
  ...
----
====

> After the creation of the first `Broker` with class `KafkaNamespaced`, the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments are created in the namespace. Subsequently, all the brokers with the `KafkaNamespaced` class, in the same namespace, will use the same data plane. When there are no brokers of class `KafkaNamespaced` in the namespace, the data plane in the namespace will be deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the creation of the first `Broker` object with the `KafkaNamespaced` class, the `kafka-broker-receiver` and `kafka-broker-dispatcher` deployments are created in the namespace. Subsequently, all brokers with the `KafkaNamespaced` class in the same namespace will use the same data plane. If no brokers with the `KafkaNamespaced` class exist in the namespace, the data plane in the namespace is deleted.
```
